TLS Metadata Header plugin (#478)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_kong_plugins/tls-metadata-headers/index.md

Here are some use cases where the TLS Metadata Header plugin can be helpful:
* Pass TLS client certificate metadata to an upstream service, enabling it to perform validation of the proxied certificate
* Establish trust between microservices and use the extracted metadata to route requests differently based on the client’s certificate metadata (for example, different routes for different departments or services)
* Enforce access control based on certain attributes of the client certificate, like the client’s organization (extracted from the certificate's subject DN)
* Log or audit extracted metadata from client certificates

{:.warning}
> **Important:** This plugin **must** be used in conjunction with another plugin that requests a client certificate, such as the [mTLS Authentication](/plugins/mtls-auth/) or [TLS Handshake Modifier](/plugins/tls-handshake-modifier/) plugins. 

## How it works

The following explains how the TLS Metadata Headers plugin works:

> 1. A client request is sent with a TLS certificate on a Gateway Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A client sends a request with a TLS certificate.
```
"On a Gateway Service" seems out of place here. 
I'd also rephrase into less passive voice.

> 2. Either the mTLS Authentication or TLS Handshake Modifier plugin is configured on the Gateway Service, making the client certificate available to other plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The Gateway Service that proxies the client request has either the mTLS Authentication or TLS Handshake Modifier plugin enabled, making the client certificate available to other plugins.
```

3. The TLS Metadata Header plugin, configured on the same Gateway Service, accesses the client certificate and extracts metadata such as the certificate itself, serial number, issuer Distinguished Name (DN), subject DN, and SHA1 fingerprint. It also retrieves the full client certificate chain.
4. If `inject_client_cert_details` is enabled, the TLS Metadata Header plugin injects the extracted TLS client certificate metadata into HTTP headers.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!--vale off-->
```

{% mermaid %}
sequenceDiagram

>     actor C as Client
>     participant M as mTLS Authentication/TLS Handshake Modifier plugin
>     participant T as TLS Metadata Header plugin
>     participant H as Upstream service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    actor C as Client
    participant M as mTLS Authentication <br> or TLS Handshake Modifier plugin
    participant T as TLS Metadata Header <br> plugin
    participant H as Upstream <br> service
```

>     C->>M: Sends request with TLS certificate
>     M->>M: Makes client certificate available to other plugins
>     M->>T: Extracts metadata: <br>certificate, serial number, issuer DN, <br>subject DN, SHA1 fingerprint, certificate chain
>     T->>T: Checks if `inject_client_cert_details` is enabled
>     alt `inject_client_cert_details` is enabled
>         T->>H: Injects metadata into HTTP headers
>     else `inject_client_cert_details` is disabled
>         T->>T: Does nothing
>     end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    C->>M: Sends request with <br>TLS certificate
    M->>M: Makes client certificate <br>available to other plugins
    M->>T: Extracts metadata
    T->>T: Checks if inject_client_cert_details <br>is enabled
    alt inject_client_cert_details is enabled
        T->>H: Injects metadata into HTTP headers
    else inject_client_cert_details is disabled
        T->>T: Does nothing
    end
```
Detailing the specific metadata is too much info for the diagram. Also, mermaid doesn't know what to do with backticks.

Also adding some linebreaks to make this diagram less wide and easier to read.

> {% endmermaid %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% endmermaid %}

<!--vale off-->
```

  - certificates
---

The TLS Metadata Header plugin detects client certificates in requests, extracts the TLS metadata (such as the URL-encoded client certificate), and injects this metadata into HTTP headers. It does not validate client certificates.

Here are some use cases where the TLS Metadata Header plugin can be helpful:
* Pass TLS client certificate metadata to an upstream service, enabling it to perform validation of the proxied certificate
* Use the extracted metadata to route requests differently based on the client’s certificate metadata (for example, different routes for different departments or services)
* Enforce access control based on certain attributes of the client certificate, like the client’s organization (extracted from the certificate's subject DN)
* Log or audit extracted metadata from client certificates

{:.warning}
> **Important:** This plugin **must** be used in conjunction with another plugin that requests a client certificate, such as the [mTLS Authentication](/plugins/mtls-auth/) or [TLS Handshake Modifier](/plugins/tls-handshake-modifier/) plugins. 

## How it works

> The following explains how the TLS Metadata Headers plugin works:
> 
> 1. A client sends a request with a TLS certificate.
> 2. The Gateway Service that proxies the client request has either the mTLS Authentication or TLS Handshake Modifier plugin enabled, making the client certificate available to other plugins.
> 3. The TLS Metadata Header plugin, configured on the same Gateway Service, accesses the client certificate and extracts metadata such as the certificate itself, serial number, issuer Distinguished Name (DN), subject DN, and SHA1 fingerprint. It also retrieves the full client certificate chain.
> 4. If `inject_client_cert_details` is enabled, the TLS Metadata Header plugin injects the extracted TLS client certificate metadata into HTTP headers.
> 
> <!--vale off-->
> {% mermaid %}
> sequenceDiagram
>     actor C as Client
>     participant M as mTLS Authentication <br> or TLS Handshake Modifier plugin
>     participant T as TLS Metadata Header <br> plugin
>     participant H as Upstream <br> service
> 
>     C->>M: Sends request with <br>TLS certificate
>     M->>M: Makes client certificate <br>available to other plugins
>     M->>T: Extracts metadata
>     T->>T: Checks if inject_client_cert_details <br>is enabled
>     alt inject_client_cert_details is enabled
>         T->>H: Injects metadata into HTTP headers
>     else inject_client_cert_details is disabled
>         T->>T: Does nothing
>     end
> {% endmermaid %}
> 
> <!--vale on-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TLS Metadata Header plugin accesses the client certificate and extracts the following metadata:
* The certificate itself
* Serial number
* Issuer Distinguished Name (DN)
* Subject DN
* SHA1 fingerprint
* Full client certificate chain

If `inject_client_cert_details` is enabled, the TLS Metadata Header plugin injects the extracted TLS client certificate metadata into HTTP headers.
```
After talking to Fabian (I wanted to pass this by someone with more knowledge of the topic), we agreed that the explanation and diagram complicate a simple plugin here. The diagram makes a simple process seem far more complex than it is.

I've removed everything except step 3 and 4, and converted step 3 into a list to make it easier to read.
